Adaptability

Meaning of Adaptability
Adaptability is a soft skill that means you easily adjust to changing circumstances. An adaptable person in the workplace can keep up with moving priorities, projects, clients, and technology. They're skilled at dealing with changes at work, whether process updates or their work environment.

The role of adaptability
Adaptability expands your capacity to handle change, no matter how serious it might be. Instead of throwing away your energy trying to change your circumstance, you will change yourself right from within, thus making you thrive in whatever situation you find yourself in.

Why Adaptability is Important?
Ways adaptability helps us: There are lots of benefits we can gain by being flexible and adaptable. If you have reached that point in life where adaptability becomes necessary, just know there are lots of benefits to be gained. It will definitely not be easy at first, but patience and practice can do a lot.

Why Adaptability is Important at Workplace
Your value will increase at your workplace
Adaptability is a skill every leader must have
Adaptability creates more happiness and overall life satisfaction
Makes it possible for you to smoothly go through career changes
Whenever life knocks you down, bouncing back will become easy

Your value will increase at your workplace
In this modern era, adaptability has become the watchword of doing business. What this means is that as an employee, you must be willing to adapt as well. Adaptability opens up your mind to new ideas, makes you question the status quo, and gives you the willingness to go against convention. Adaptable people aren’t scared of change, as they will first make necessary plans to handle it.

Adaptability is a skill every leader must have
Adaptability can’t afford to be missing if you want to do well as a leader. Adaptable leaders earn the respect of their colleagues and motivate those they lead to embrace change, making business operations as smooth as possible. Leaders are always confronted with challenges that require them to be decisive in implementing change. Failure to arrive at a decision as fast as possible can cause their organization to sink in fast.

Adaptability creates more happiness and overall life satisfaction
Adaptability helps you stand strong in seemingly hopeless situations. Once you assure yourself that you have all it takes to begin the change process right within you, you will have unlocked more happiness for yourself.

Makes it possible for you to smoothly go through career changes
If you are adaptable, finding another job won’t be much of a work and when you finally find it, managing the job’s task won’t take much effort from you. Overcoming procrastination will become quite easy for you, as you will find updating your resume something you will be doing all the time.

Whenever life knocks you down, bouncing back will become easy
There are times we experience unexpected unpleasant situations in life. Being adaptable ensures you stay afloat when adversities of life try to sink you down. Instead of running away from reality, you embrace it and flow with it. Adaptable people are resilient people. Dean Becker, an expert in resiliency, is the view that our success in life is built on our ability to adapt.

How to improve adaptability skills?
Improve your problem solving skills
Learn to embrace change
Keep an open mind
Leave your ego at the door
Practice mindfulness
Push yourself out of your comfort zone

Improve your problem solving skills
Problem solving helps you resolve specific issues as they arise. This term can often feel ambiguous, but it’s actually a concrete process comprised of four simple steps:
Identify the problems that need to be solved.
Brainstorm multiple solutions. 
Define the solution.
Implement the solution.
Using a framework like the one above will help you better identify problems so you can strategically come up with a solution. Plus, every time you use these problem solving skills, you’re making it easier to solve the next one—even if it’s different. Over time, you’ll be adaptable enough to solve any problem that comes up.

Learn to embrace change
Learning to embrace and even look forward to change can help you become a more adaptable leader. Teach yourself to embrace any situation by taking more risks and accepting the results, whatever they are. Practice self-care during particularly difficult changes and reach out for support when needed. Above all else, be kind to yourself—even as you learn to embrace it, change is never easy.

Keep an open mind
Exercising your brain can help you become more open-minded when you’re faced with a new situation. Try these tips to develop an open mind: 
Ask higher level questions that go beyond the “what” to the more crucial “why’s” of the situation. 
Practice active listening when you’re learning something new. Withhold judgements until you have all the information—this includes limiting beliefs about yourself or your capabilities. 
Try to think about the current situation from every angle, stretching your mind to include all of the varying possibilities.

Leave your ego at the door
Your ego is your sense of self. If you follow a more philosophical viewpoint, it’s not inherently bad or good, the ego just is. But because it’s naturally self-centered, the ego is not always the most helpful communication tool. Stepping outside of yourself—removing the ego—allows you to see other perspectives more clearly and embrace change. In short, practicing leaving your ego out of the workplace builds on many other adaptability skills.

Practice mindfulness
Mindfulness is the act of focusing on the present moment without trying to change anything about it. Instead of jumping in with solutions or ideas, mindfulness allows you to take a step back and reflect on what’s happening. This allows you to be more flexible and appreciate the moment, which makes you more open to change. Put less attention on the past and future. You can’t change something once it happens, but you can accept it. Thinking about what could or should have happened likely won’t help and it might even make things worse. Focus on what's happening now. Instead, lean into the situation as it is. This allows you to let go of things outside of your control and pay attention to those things you can change.

Push yourself out of your comfort zone
Most of us want to stay inside our comfort zone. It’s natural. Our brain likes comfortable experiences and encourages us to seek them out. But if you only do things you’re comfortable with, you won’t be as prepared when changes do inevitably come up. You can begin to expand your comfort zone with small tweaks. Practice placing yourself in new and challenging situations where you have control over the outcome. It doesn’t have to be jumping out of an airplane. Simple things like taking a new route to work can help you think more creatively and become more flexible. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Conveying Negative News

What is Conveying Negative News?
Conveying negative news is all about delivering the news or information that the audience doesn’t want to hear, read or receive. It is all about sharing the not so good news to the opposite individual or the team which may influence them personally and professionally and may affect their performance.

Why is it important to Convey Negative News?
The purpose of conveying negative messages is to reduce conflict between the sender and receiver, decrease the impact of bad news, or reinforce a negative consequence. Help the receiver understand and accept the news. Maintain trust and respect for the business or organization and for the receiver.

What tone should you use when writing an email?
Use words that are courteous and positive.
Use language that is non-judgmental and non-discriminatory.
Use emoticons sparingly (usually only for informal emails).
Write with clear and neutral language.
Avoid using inflammatory language.
Avoid writing in all caps.

Factors to consider before deciding the tone for your email
Understand your target audience
Determine the type of email and message to send
Choose an appropriate starting and closing
Make it conversational
Include a good subject line
Consider the recipients' perspective

How to convey Negative News? 
Face-to-face interactions
Telephone conversations
Email
Written memos or letters.

Direct approach
The direct approach is the most straightforward method of delivering bad news. It involves clearly and concisely stating the negative information immediately in the message. This approach is best used when the news is not earth-shattering, and the receiver is not heavily emotionally invested in the outcome.
Indirect approach
The indirect approach is a gentler way of delivering bad news and is better suited for situations in which the receiver is emotionally invested in the outcome. It involves starting the message with some positive information before transitioning to the negative news. This method is less likely to cause an emotional reaction in the receiver and can be used when the news is more sensitive in nature. 

How to Convey Negative News?
We can use the BEBE strategy to convey the negative news. 
Buffer or cushion
Explanation
Bad News
Exit

Buffer or cushion
The first part of a negative news message, verbal or written, involves neutral or positive information. A buffer statement is a brief statement that is used to soften the blow of bad news. A buffer can be an expression of agreement, appreciation, or general principle or a chronology of past communications. Some examples of buffer statements include:
"We are sorry to have to tell you this, but..."
"We know this isn't what you wanted to hear, but..."
" We wish the news was better, but..."
Thank you for contacting us. We appreciate your interest in our product.

Explanation
Explanation discusses why there is an issue in the first place. This may be relatively simple, quite complex, or uncomfortable.  Not only is an explanation a necessary part of any negative news message, it is an ethical and moral requirement. An explanation of the bad news prepares the reader for the refusal or denial – but it does NOT explicitly state the bad news yet. Give readers the opportunity to see that the unfavorable decision is based on valid, legitimate reasons. If they can understand your reasons, they can more easily accept your news.

Bad News
The third part of the negative news message involves the bad news itself, and the emphasis here is on clarity and accuracy. While you want to break the bad news clearly, try not to spotlight it. Deliver the bad news in the body of the message. State it clearly and concisely, and explain the reasons briefly and unemotionally. Avoid apologies; they weaken your explanation or position. Try to embed the bad news in a supporting, not the topical, sentence of a paragraph. Furthermore, try to embed it in a subordinate clause of a sentence. The purpose is not to conceal the bad news, but to soften its impact."

Positive Action Closing [Exit]
The closing of a message containing negative news should be courteous and helpful. The purpose of the closing is to maintain or rebuild goodwill. The closing should have a sincere tone. Avoid overused closings such as If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to call. Offer the receiver another option. Presenting another option shifts the emphasis from the negative news to a positive solution." In either the indirect or direct approach, the ending should include a goodwill or respectful close that will illustrate good feelings towards the receiver of the bad news. This type of close should be reassuring to the receiver and end with a positive note to try and make the individual feel better. Express confidence in continued business relations with a goodwill statement and provide any action information such as contact instructions should the recipient require further information.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Empathy

What is empathy?
The term “empathy” is used to describe a wide range of experiences. It's the ability to understand another person's thoughts and feelings in a situation from their point of view, rather than your own.

Why is empathy important?
Empathy is important because it helps us understand how others are feeling so we can respond appropriately to the situation. It is typically associated with social behavior and there is lots of research showing that greater empathy leads to more helping behavior. Empathy allows you to build social connections with others. By understanding what people are thinking and feeling, you are able to respond appropriately in social situations. Empathizing with others helps you learn to regulate your own emotions. Empathy promotes helping behaviors.
The Benefits of Empathy
Benefits your health (less stress and less negativity which leads people to be in better shape with stronger immune systems)
Leads to a happier life
Improves communications skills
Leads to teamwork
Creates a healthy work environment
Transcends personal relationships
Decreases negativity

Types of Empathy
Cognitive empathy  
Emotional empathy or Affective empathy
Compassionate empathy or Empathic Concern

Cognitive Empathy
It involves being able to understand another person's mental state and what they might be thinking in response to the situation.

Compassionate Empathy
Compassionate empathy is what we usually understand by empathy: feeling someone’s pain, and taking action to help. The name, compassionate empathy, is consistent with what we usually understand by compassion. Like sympathy, compassion is about feeling concern for someone, but with an additional move towards action to mitigate the problem. Compassionate empathy is the type of empathy that is usually most appropriate.

Emotional empathy or Affective empathy
Emotional empathy is when you quite literally feel the other person's emotions alongside them, as if you had 'caught' the emotions. Emotional empathy is also known as 'personal distress' or 'emotional contagion'. This is closer to the usual understanding of the word 'empathy', but more emotional.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Email Etiquette


What is an Email?

Electronic mail (email or e-mail) is a method of transmitting and receiving messages using electronic devices. It was conceived in the late–20th century as the digital version of, or counterpart to, mail (hence e- + mail). 

What is Email etiquette?

Email etiquette is a set of principles to write or answer emails in a socially or professionally acceptable manner. It includes language, structure, grammar, and tone and differs based on the recipient and between professional and personal emails. 

Why is Email etiquette important?

Email etiquette is important because it helps you convey your message clearly. It also helps achieve the following:

Professionalism: Using proper email language, you and your organization will convey a professional image.
Efficiency: It helps you improve your communication skills. Emails which get to the point are much more effective than badly conveyed emails.
Clarity of expression: Use appropriate tone to avoid being misunderstood or misinterpreted.
Protection from liability: Awareness of email stakes will protect you and your organization from costly lawsuits.

What are the advantages of Email?

Productivity tools: Email is usually packaged with a calendar, address book, instant messaging, and more for convenience and productivity.
Access to web services: If you want to sign up for an account like Facebook or order products from services like Amazon, you will need an email address so you can be safely identified and contacted.
Easy mail management: Email service providers have tools that allow you to file, label, prioritize, find, group, and filter your emails for easy management. You can even easily control spam, or junk email.
Privacy: Your email is delivered to your own personal and private account with a password required to access and view emails.
Communication with multiple people: You can send an email to multiple people at once, giving you the option to include as few as or as many people as you want in a conversation.
Accessible anywhere at any time: You don’t have to be at home to get your mail. You can access it from any computer or mobile device that has an Internet connection.

What are the challenges with Email?

Long & Lengthy Emails
Too much Back & Forth
In-Attention to Detail
Missing Links
Tone
Complicated Conversations
Time-Consuming & Tedious
Poor Email Etiquette

What are the rules to follow?

Avoid all caps, exclamation points, and slang
Overuse of bold, underline, and italics void emphasis
Be respectful with your tone
Be mobile-friendly with short and concise messages
Salutations and closings should be professional and respectful
Create a professional signature
Use succinct subject lines
Respond timely and appropriately
Proofread, proofread, proofread


How to convey a message?

All business messages fit across two broad categories with an overlapping third category. There are communications where the receiver is expected to have a positive or neutral reaction, and there are communications about which receivers may have a more negative reaction. 

Positive/ Neutral Messages
Negative Messages
Persuasive Messages

Sharing Positive/ Neutral Messages

Positive messages include messages where the audience is expected to react in a neutral to positive manner. Positive messages tend to consist of routine or good news. These messages might be items such as congratulations, confirmations, directions, simple credit requests, or credit approvals. 

Example of Positive/ Neutral Messages 

Consider the message to be a positive message structure when:

The receiver likes or expects this news (product shipped on time)
The receiver needs little education or background to understand the news (travel arrangement for the conference)
The receiver considers the message routine, even if not completely positive (parking lot closed for three days for new striping)

Inverted Pyramid Structure

It starts with the most important information a reader “needs to know” and proceeds to the less important. An email organized this way gives readers control. They can decide the discussions, details and history they need to read


Sharing Persuasive Messages

The third, overlapping category is persuasive messages. With this category, the audience is expected to need encouragement in order to act as the sender desires. 

Example of Persuasive Messages

Consider the message a persuasive communication when:

The receiver may be reluctant (please speak to the new employee group)
The receiver is being asked a favor (please write recommendation letter)
The receiver may be invited to something somewhat outside regular duties (please supervise a new book club that will meet on campus after work)

Dos

Imagine your message on a Billboard
Emails are company property
Avoid Offensive Comments
Think before sending confidential information
Avoid Emoticons
Keep the message cool
Think carefully before forwarding emails
Include the message thread
Reply responsibly

Don’ts

Forget to check for spelling and grammar
Write a “Novel”
Forward Emails without permission
Use email as a substitute for personal interaction
Fill in “to” button until you’ve written and proof read your messages
Forget to include your name, signature and additional contact information

______________________________________________________________________

Attention to Details

What is attention to detail?
Attention to detail is the ability to accomplish/complete a task while demonstrating thorough concern for all the areas involved, no matter how small. An example for attention to detail noting and correcting all the grammatical errors and typos in an email before sending it out.


Why Attention to details is important?
Attention to detail not only ensures that employees work to a high standard, it also minimizes the amount of supervision that employees require, as employers can have confidence in their workforce’s ability to avoid errors. As an example, if a finance administrator accidentally lists the wrong figure on a large invoice, this could result in tangible financial losses for the organization and may cause significant embarrassment in front of a supplier or customer.

Why Should You Have Systems and Processes in Place to Ensure Attention to Detail? 
To Avoid making mistakes.
To Improve Efficiency
To Create a More Professional Image
To Instill Confidence in Customers and Clients

To Avoid Making Mistakes
Mistakes cause production delays. Not only must someone fix these errors, but time and money are also wasted away as many of these mistakes are repeated over and over again. Having systems and processes to ensure attention to detail, like goal setting and an accountability system, will prevent simple errors from repeatedly occurring and help catch the larger mistakes before they cause any trouble. 

To Improve Efficiency
Having a system or routine in place as you introduce the importance of attention to detail to your company only increases the efficiency of your workflow. Your employees will have fewer questions and something to reference when they do need assistance.

To Create a More Professional Image
Your reputation as a company influences both pre-existing and potential clients. Seeing that your company has a system in place to make sure only the highest quality of work is produced will attract new clients. Your pre-existing clients will come to rely on you as they never have before. Once they see how much importance you place on attention to detail, they will realize how much importance you place on their business, increasing the trust in the client-organization relationship. 

To Instill Confidence in Customers and Clients
Customers and clients alike trust you to produce the highest quality of work for them. There’s nothing more comforting than seeing the systems and processes in place to ensure only the best work is produced for them. High-quality work produced on time strengthens their convictions that your organization is the one for them.

Tips on how to pay Attention to Detail.
Organization
Editing skills
Diligence
Time management

Organization
People who pay attention to detail must be organized to maintain efficiency while producing accurate work. Whether creating a checklist that breaks down all small parts of a task or setting up structured time to review their work, a person’s ability to organize is crucial to ensure no detail gets left behind — and that they’re getting their job done promptly.

Editing Skills
You don’t need to get all the details right the first time to have good attention to detail. Instead, you should be your best editor (and everyone else’s). People who pay attention to detail must review their completed work to catch first draft errors and mistakes. Good analytic and proofreading skills will help you notice the minor errors you might have overlooked the first time.

Diligence
Reviewing your and others’ work multiple times can be tiring and frustrating. Keeping track of details requires extra effort, and those with attention to detail need the diligence to persevere and return to the same work again and again.

Time Management
Paying attention to detail can be a lengthy process if you don’t organize your time efficiently. You’ll need to know how to manage your time well enough to allow for editing but not take so much time that you miss deadlines or hold up projects.

7 Ways To Improve Your Attention to Detail
Attention to detail is a soft skill, so there aren’t necessarily courses you can take to improve it (unlike hard skill). However, there are ways you can refine this skill in your everyday work life:
Slow down
Prioritize
Monotask
Take breaks often
Allocate time to review your work
Establish standard routines and procedures
Ask for help

Slow Down
People with strong attention to detail embody the mantra “slow and steady wins the race.” It’s especially vital to slow down if you’re working one of your first jobs to get acclimated to the professional world. “Early career professionals are strongly encouraged to practice working at a slower pace as it can help them improve their attention to detail at work”. “When talking about attention to detail, it means taking more time to understand and perform tasks slowly. Creating something with high quality means going over it again and again to ensure perfection. The key here is to stay focused, work at a slower pace and avoid distractions.”

Prioritize
Time management matters when producing error-free work on a tight schedule. The best way to tackle competing deadlines is to prioritize. First, make a checklist that breaks down all the tasks you’re hoping to complete that day — no part is too small. Then, think about what tasks are high priority. Is a task due by the end of the week, while the other tasks are long-term? Do that first. Is there a task that’s foundational for future work? Start there.

Monotask
Monotasking is the practice of working on only one task at a time without distraction. When monotasking, you choose one of the many tasks on your checklist and work to complete it without checking other work communication or looking at other tasks. This working style can help increase productivity and focus by limiting distractions and interruptions, helping you get work done more efficiently and accurately. “Early career professionals tend to want to be the best they can be, which usually means taking on extra responsibilities and working longer hours. And although this can make you seem like a hard worker, it can often lead to things like forced multitasking”. “Too much of this can hinder your work performance because you have simply taken on too much.”

Take Breaks Often
“It’s important to take breaks often when you’re trying to focus on a task”. “This will allow your mind to rest and reset, which will help you stay focused when you return to the task at hand.” While we may think we have to work through the whole day to get things done, we can perform better — and even be more engaged at work — when we take regular breaks. According to a survey, 91% of employees say taking a break helps them maintain their mental focus and 88% return to work feeling energized and refreshed after a break.

Allocate Time To Review Your Work
People who pay attention to detail don’t just get it right on the first try; they review their work to see what details they missed on the first go around. Set aside time to review your work before the deadline to catch these details. Give yourself a cushion of time, so you’re not rushing through any edits.

Establish Standard Routines and Procedures
“Having an SOP for tasks that you do regularly can help you make sure that you’re always paying attention to the important details” . “This is especially important if you find yourself getting bogged down in the mundane details of your job. Having a set routine can help you stay focused and avoid making mistakes.” Don’t be afraid to use project management tools to help you organize these routines and procedures. Having your SOP written down can also be useful if you want to share your work style with an interviewer or teammate.

Ask For Help
“Know that you do not have to go at it alone” . “Ask for another set of eyes on your work. This can be a trusted peer, your supervisor, or a mentor. You can also make use of Grammarly and other free proofreading tools to catch any glaring errors.” People who pay attention to detail don’t have to catch all of the details themselves — but they do have people and programs to call on to help them succeed.
List of Do’s and Don’ts for Analyst

Do’s
Don’ts
Have in-depth knowledge about the respective process.
Don’t lose patience.
Follow a two-way communication       process.
Don’t rely only on Canned Responses.
Focus on the partners.
Do not keep the client’s call on hold for a long time.
Take tips and pointers from a successful Analyst.
Never Say “I have No idea, Sir!”


Do’s for Agents
Have in-depth knowledge about the respective process.
When agents are thorough with the features and specifications of the process, they have to make the least efforts to solve the query. This results in establishing credibility, trust, and leaves an impression on the partner’s mind. Moreover, it boosts the confidence of the agent and helps them to cross their line of ability to work more.
Follow a two-way communication process
Two-way communication involves feedback from the receiver to the sender. This allows the sender to know the message was received accurately by the receiver. Communication is also negotiated which means that the sender and receiver listen to each other, the messages then gather information to respond.
Focus on the partners.
An agent’s entire attention should be on partners and what they require. This develops a partner's faith in you and they tend to build a relationship. This way, when they have an issue, they will surely search for you.
Take tips and pointers from a successful Analyst.
One of the best ways to improve your own performance is to get tips from someone who is doing well. Sit in on  with a successful agent and listen to how they manage their emails and handle partner interactions. Then, incorporate their techniques into your own dealings with partners. By following other footsteps you can add extra efficiency in your work.

Don’ts for Agents
Don’t lose patience
The calmer the agents manage to keep themselves, the more successful they become. Coming across people with different temperaments happens in their day to day schedule. While making outbound emails, few prospects give annoying responses; they become rude and slam the emails at times. Even during inbound emails customers take out their frustration because of their complaints. This demoralizes the agent’s spirit because they cannot respond in the same manner.
Don’t rely only on Canned Responses.
A Canned response is a must for every process. Process information, FAQs, unless changed, should be jotted and highlighted on their papers. The agents should be giving exact data to the prospects because they don’t forgive later for false information. But at the same time, avoid narrating every bit from the CR, it sounds robotic on the agent’s end. Keeping the Canned Response for reference is advisable.
Do not keep the client on hold for a long time.
Keeping emails on hold is not advisable. Rather, it is suggested to send the acknowledgement email while searching for the information. The priority of the agent is to get favorable feedback from the attendee and it can be only fetched by giving them utmost attention.
Never Say “I have No idea, Sir!”
This is another statement which can completely kill a partner’s confidence in you. No one expects you to know all the answers, but you should at least be confident and positive about finding the ones you don’t know. Agents need to develop the right material in them which pushes them towards success. They need to become the complete package. They work hard, exceed expectations and do more than asked to achieve high-quality consistent results. A little direction can lead them working extremely well with both partners and employees.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Demonstrative Pronouns Handout

The following are known as demonstrative pronouns
This 
That
These
Those


The demonstrative pronouns are categorized on the basis of:
Quantity (singular or plural)
Proximity (near or far)


We use ‘This’ to refer to something which is ‘Near’ and is ‘Singular’.

We use ‘That’ to refer to something which is ‘Far’ and is ‘Singular'.

We use ‘These’ to refer to something which is ‘Near’ and is ‘Plural’.

We use ‘Those’ to refer to something which is ‘Far’ and is ‘Plural’.


Please note that the proximity is decided from the speaker’s perspective.


-------------------------------------------------------

Proactiveness


What is Proactiveness? 
Proactivity or proactive behavior refers to self-initiated behavior that endeavors to solve a problem before it has occurred. Proactive behavior involves acting in advance of a future situation, rather than reacting. It refers to taking control of a situation and making early changes, rather than adjusting to a situation or waiting for something to happen.
Being proactive means anticipating what might happen, planning ahead, preparing in advance and acting ahead instead of simply reacting to circumstances. Being proactive builds your personal brand and reputation at work. People can count on you for your reliability.

What is Reactiveness? 
Reactive behavior often refers to an immediate response to feelings about an uncontrollable situation, a problem or other issue. Reactions often result from actions that took place in the past. For instance, feeling disappointed over a football team's loss is reactive behavior. In some cases, reactive behavior results when an employee or manager places others' needs over their own priorities to provide an immediate response.

Proactive Vs Reactive
Proactive People
Reactive People
Do not blame anyone or anything
Blame circumstances, conditions or conditionings
Behavior is product of their conscious choice, based on values
Behavior is product of their conditions, based on feelings
They carry their weather with them
If weather good they feel good, if it is bad they feel bad
They are still influenced by external stimulus - but their response is values based on their choice
Reactive people builds their life around there emotions



Example of proactive and reactive 
Proactiveness: 
Consider an entrepreneur who just recently founded a startup. Rather than merely react to the whims of the market, they could proactively take steps to set up a rainy day fund, should they experience a loss of revenue.

 Reactiveness: 
A reactive business owner might act as if they will constantly be in a booming market and then be unprepared when an economic downturn arrives.

Why Proactiveness is Important?
The importance of proactivity lies in the advantages it provides to you in both your professional and your personal life. These include:
Empowerment
Empowerment is the condition of having greater control over your circumstances and improved self-confidence in your ability to direct your life. Proactivity fosters empowerment by emphasizing the advantage of creating your own situations in which you can succeed. As a result, proactive individuals are often less likely to be complacent, as their continual growth mindset helps drives them toward achievement. For example, a young aspiring computer programmer might try to learn the terminology and concepts of the profession and become proficient in various programming languages before seeking a degree in the field. Once they enter college, they already have a great deal of knowledge and skill that they obtained through their own efforts, creating a more comfortable and favorable situation for themselves.
Self-improvement
The growth mindset associated with empowerment can also lead to self-improvement. An essential tenet of a growth mindset is that your qualities aren't fixed components. Rather, with focused effort, you can improve your attributes and skills. Along with a tendency to take initiative, this attitude may help proactive people grow regularly in their professional and personal lives. For example, an employee might realize their presentation skills may be lacking. Instead of avoiding tasks that require public speaking, they might self-initiate measures to become more comfortable presenting, such as learning advanced techniques in presentation software, practicing speaking in private or even engaging in more conversations with groups of colleagues. By recognizing a gap in their skill set and proactively working to fill it, the employee is better able to serve a function that they previously couldn't.
Prevention and solutions
An important aspect of proactivity is considering the potential obstacles you might face in a given circumstance. With the obstacles in mind, a proactive person takes measures that either prevent the obstacle from arising or lessen its severity, such as putting in more work than is necessary for the moment. For example, a student writing a research paper might try to ensure they have photocopies or printouts of all their resources, with the citation written on each. This ensures they have access to their research even when someone else has checked out their resources or the internet goes down.
Leadership
Proactivity often lends itself to leadership qualities. For example, a proactive employee often anticipates the needs of their team before others do, and they work toward meeting those needs. Rather than wait for instructions from their supervisor, the employee may take the first step to discuss matters with them. In this way, proactivity can lead to progress for the organization. Thus, even if a proactive employee doesn't have an official position of leadership, their colleagues may regard them as informal leaders—individuals whom others look to for help, guidance and advocacy.
Less stress
The steps that proactive people take to prevent problems or create favorable circumstances can result in reduced feelings of urgency and stress. Putting in additional effort often means getting ahead on your work, allowing you to meet deadlines more easily. Foreseeing obstacles means you're better prepared to face them, leading to more easily devised solutions. In both scenarios, you're somehow ahead of a factor that can induce stress.
Advancement
Being a proactive person can improve your chances of professional advancement because of the above qualities. Many employers appreciate self-motivated employees who continually seek to do better, solve or preempt problems, are productive and can create situations that are favorable to productivity. Such employees often take on more consequential assignments, advance to managerial and supervisory positions and enjoy higher salaries and prestige.


Tips on How to be Proactive at Work
Responding to emails promptly
Having a to-do list
Prioritizing tasks
Developing your efficiency methods
Managing your calendar
Anticipating problems and problem solving
Working well with others
Not over committing yourself
Following up
Adapting to change
Providing timely updates
Acting on feedback
Participating actively at work
Improving work processes
Building-up your skills
Handling interruptions at work


Advantages of Proactiveness
One of the main advantages of being proactive is that it allows you to take control of your life. When you take the initiative, you are not waiting for things to happen to you. Instead, you are actively seeking out opportunities and taking steps to achieve your goals.
Another advantage of being proactive is that it helps you to build your confidence. When you take action and see positive results, you feel more capable and empowered. This can lead to a positive cycle of success, where your confidence grows, and you become even more proactive in pursuing your goals.
Being proactive also allows you to be more efficient with your time. When you take the initiative, you can identify the most important tasks and prioritize them. This helps you to focus your energy on the things that will have the most significant impact on your life or work.

Disadvantages of Proactiveness
One of the main disadvantages is that it can be stressful to be ahead of the curve. When you are always pushing yourself to be the first, you may feel like you are constantly under pressure to perform.
Another potential disadvantage of being proactive is that you may miss out on opportunities that come your way. When you are so focused on making things happen, you may not be open to new possibilities that arise. This can limit your potential and prevent you from exploring new avenue of growth

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5 Steps of saying NO:

Listen to the partner carefully

Be patient and polite to your partner

Offer them some help if we have no or little information

Provide satisfactory explanation in detailed manner 

Follow Up with them stating if they received proper information of what they are expecting


Effective communication:

There are 15 tips 

Convey accurate information

Practise proactive customer communication

Avoid interrupting the customers

Know your product or service inside out

Have an attentive mindset

Be honest

Don’t hurry

Practise patience

Communicate the way your customer wants

Personalise every interaction

Encourage questions

Resolve urgent complaints first

Eliminate the use of Negative phrases

Use consistent vocabulary
Understand what we are doing

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Customer Service Soft Skills Fundamentals:

Key points of Good Customer Service:

Knowledgeable
Satisfied
Happy 
Polite
Helpful
Friendly
Heard
It's important that customers should feel any of the above key points in order for a Good Customer Service.

Plan your day:
No emails or phone calls in bed.
Set a to-do list
Create a calendar and share it with the team
Finish Strong! Set yourself up for the next day


Workspace review:
Look critically at your workplace. What can you get rid of? Get rid of it! Right now!

Platinum rule:
Do unto others as they would have done unto them:
Do what they are expecting you to do
Listen like an introvert and Act like an extrovert

Body language matters:

 Sound friendly, and try to resolve partner issues and remember clients are not your friends.
 You’re an expert, Be confident when you start saying something.

Mute is your friend:

If the client is angry, just mute yourself. This is hard but when someone is angry they just want to be heard.

Dr.Google:

Search anything in google or youtube, even customers can do it. But, you’re the expert here.
Ask out for help from anyone like your supervisor, Don’t hesitate to ask.

Follow-up, Follow-through, Document, Document, Document:
Nothing exists until it’s written down.
Make sure you put a number of notes that you can do.

Bad reviews are a good thing, you aren’t hearing about the good stuff!

Angry Customer:
Be heard what they’re saying
Don’t talk while they are explaining something - Mute
Be honest and tell if you don’t know about the particular product.
Also, include that you will get the issue resolved at any cost
Ask for help, explain the issue to your supervisor if you don’t know about it.

Functional needs: Needs that focus on achieving a specific task or function. Customers require solutions that allow them to perform these activities.
Social needs: Needs that fixate on the perception of a product or service. While these needs aren’t at the forefront of a customer’s mind, they can impact their final decision.
Emotional needs: These needs concentrate on feeling a certain way when using a product or service.





Homework: 

Assessing customers needs:


Look : Partner has raised their concerns with regards to going live and showcasing content on Google TV with an Indonesian language device setup. 
Ask: 
Try

Notes: 13-Dec-2024

What are customer relationships and why it is important:

Customer relations are the efforts a company makes to connect with customers and build positive long-term relationships with them. The goal of customer relations is to connect with your customers on a deeper, more meaningful level. Good customer relations can help a business retain current customers, as well as gain new ones.

Customer relations is important for a business for many reasons. People who feel connected to a brand on a deeper level are more likely to continue to support the brand and recommend the brand to their friends and family. So, having strong customer relationships is important because it creates brand loyalty. When a customer feels loyal to your brand, they’re going to keep purchasing from your brand and may even try new products.

Benefits with customer relationship

Cultivate repeat customers: When your customers have consistent positive experiences with your business, they’re more likely to choose you over competitors. Building strong customer relationships is an easy way to cultivate repeat customers and build loyalty.

Improve customer satisfaction: Keeping your customers happy is crucial for any business. Customer satisfaction increases the chances that a customer will continue to support you and write positive reviews about your business.

Boost customer loyalty: Oftentimes, customers will choose one brand over another because they feel loyal to them. Customer loyalty is a great way to increase sales and drive profit.

Gain a better understanding of your customers: When you have a better understanding of your customers, you can better cater your products to them. Building good relationships with your customers is a good way to get feedback on how you can improve. If a customer feels like they can trust you, they’re going to feel comfortable sharing their honest opinions with you.

Increase sales: When you have good relationships with your customers, not only are they going to continue to support your business, they’re going to tell the people they know to support you, too. They also are more likely to write positive reviews for your business. All of this can lead to increased sales and higher revenue.


What makes a good customer relationship

Understanding Customers' needs
Building a connection/ Fostering emotional support
Provide excellent customer service
Create personalized experience / More Empathize or better Greetings
Keeping transparency / Clear communication
Collect feedback
Use CRM softwares (to keep a track of the interaction with the partner)
Consistency 


1. Be consistent
Consistency is key. You don’t want your customers having an extremely positive interaction one day and then a very average one the next. You need to keep all of your interactions with your customers at the same positive level. Your customers should know that every time they step into your store or interact with one of your employees, they’re going to have a good experience.

2. Use CRM software
CRM software is customer relationship management technology that a business can use to manage relationships and interactions with current and new customers. CRM software can be very helpful for building strong customer relationships because it’s a way to get to know your audience so you can figure out the right ways to market to them. With CRM software, all of your employees will have access to real-time client data that they can analyze to better understand their target customers.

3. Foster an emotional connection
One of the best ways to build customer relationships is by fostering an emotional connection with your customers. Customers who are fully emotionally connected to a brand are on average 70% more valuable than customers who aren’t emotionally connected to the brand.

There are many ways you can go about creating an emotional connection with your customers. Be vulnerable with them and relate to their struggles. Communicate with them in a real and personal way. Show interest in your customers’ lives and spend the time to get to know them. All of this will help you form an emotional connection with your customer that can hugely benefit your business.

4. Provide excellent customer service
Providing good customer service is an essential part of building customer relationships. You want your customers to feel comfortable going to you if they need help with anything. If the product they bought from your business is defective, offer a refund right away. If they aren’t sure how to use the product, provide them with the support they need. Take your time to make sure they always get excellent customer service.

5. Be transparent and communicative
No one wants to support a business that says one thing and then does another. When a business is transparent and communicative with its customers, it helps to build loyalty because your customers can trust you. Transparency also helps to foster customer retention because your customers will feel like they’re actually involved in the business processes.

6. Create personalized experiences
There’s no better feeling than receiving something that was made just for you. Personalized gifts make you feel special and cared for, and the same goes for personalized experiences. If your customer comes to you for help, don’t just reply with a generic response that you give to everyone. Take the time to understand their unique situation so that you can provide personal and genuine advice that is catered just to them.



7. Understand customer needs
A business’s ultimate goal is to help their customers. But in order to help your customers, you need to understand their needs. It’s imperative to actually listen to what your customers have to say so that you can create a product or service that works for them. Understanding your customer needs is a great way to increase customer retention because your customers will know that you have their best interests at heart.

8. Solicit customer feedback
Feedback—whether it’s good or bad—is crucial for a business, and one way you can build strong relationships with your customers is by asking them for their honest feedback. Sometimes hearing the truth hurts, but it’s necessary so that you can build your business to the best it can be.


























